# AMP_Study_FPB_16S_Analysis
For 16S gut bacterial analysis, samples were collected from both the intestinal contents (luminal samples) and the gut lining (mucosal samples), which were thoroughly washed to remove residual material. All samples were rapidly frozen and stored until DNA extraction. Genomic DNA was isolated from both luminal and mucosal samples {removed detailed extraction method}.

This DNA was used to prepare sequencing libraries targeting the V4 region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene, enabling identification of bacterial communities. Amplification was performed with appropriate quality controls, and multiple replicates ensured reliable results. After pooling and purification, the final DNA libraries were sequenced using an Illumina MiSeq platform to profile the gut microbiota across sample types.

# Sequencing analysis of small intestinal bacteria from lumen and mucosa

We obtained paired-end reads from 91 samples, totaling 8,937,168 (median 72,159 reads per sample). Initial quality check was conducted using the FASTQC toolCitation35 available online at: http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc. Low-quality reads were filtered out utilizing the FastX toolkit (http://hannonlab.cshl.edu/fastx_toolkit/index.html.) with criteria set at a minimum quality score of 25 and a minimum of 70% of bases having a quality score of 25. Subsequently, another quality check was performed post-filtration. To ensure paired-end reads remained intact after filtration, we used the repair.sh tool from the Bbmap package to remove any single-end reads (paired-end reads that lost their pair during quality filtration). Two samples with fewer than 500 sequences were excluded from further analysis. The number of reads remaining after quality filtration ranged from 2,460 to 317,355 in each sample, excluding the aforementioned samples.

Further analysis of 16S amplicon sequences was performed using the QIIME2Citation36 (version 2021.4) pipeline and R (version 4.1.3) in R Studio (RStudio Team, version 2022.07.2). Sequences were then clustered into ASVs using the SILVA classifier (version 138).Citation37 The data were further filtered to remove mitochondria and chloroplasts, and specific Lactococcus lactis ASVs were removed since it is a known contaminant in the WSD pellets.Citation38 DADA2 was employed to generate the feature table, which comprises ASV-IDs along with the corresponding count of detected ASVs in each sample.Citation39 Using the ASV inclusion criterion that an ASV should be present in a minimum of two samples with a total ASV count of 10. Four hundred and sixty-nine ASVs were excluded based on their low abundance. Following the ASV inclusion criterion, we retained the abundance data of 1,165 ASVs for subsequent analysis.

Diversity measures were evaluated using the relative abundance of 1,165 ASVs in each sample. β-diversity was assessed using genus counts subjected to a center log ratio (CLR) transformation. The ASV count per taxonomic clade per sample was normalized by dividing the ASV count by the total number of reads in the corresponding sample to generate the relative abundance. Transformation of genus and phylum abundance data into CLR-transformed values was carried out by using the taxa_transform function from the phyloseq package.Citation40 The α-diversity metrics, including observed species and Shannon index, and β-diversity, represented by Aitchison distance (Euclidean distance calculated on species counts subjected to a center log ratio transformation), were calculated using phyloseq, vegan (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/vegan/vegan.pdf), and ape (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ape/ape.pdf). Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) was carried out using Aitchison distance between samples based on their CLR-transformed genus abundances. The number of reads assigned to different taxonomic classes (mainly phylum and genus) was calculated, and the taxonomic composition was evaluated for each sample using both relative abundance and CLR-transformed ASV counts. Statistical differences between groups were calculated by using Kruskal – Wallis or PERMANOVA and 999 permutations (β -diversity).

# Correlation analysis

Absolute AMP copy numbers measured in duodenum, jejunum, and ileum from the mice groups that were fed WSD for 6, 9 or 12 weeks were correlated with the metabolic parameters blood glucose, blood insulin, bodyweight, and body fat. The normal distribution of the data was tested with a D’Agostino & Pearson test, and normally distributed data were tested with a Pearson test and non-normally distributed data were tested with a Spearman ranks test, and respective r or rs correlation rank was reported. The plots were generated using GraphPad Prism (version 10).

Log-transformed AMP transcript copy numbers and the relative abundance of microbial genera were used to assess correlations between microbiome composition and AMP expression. Associations were identified using HAllA,Citation41 which is designed for robust correlation analysis in heterogeneous datasets. Results were visualized as a HAllAgram, where block associations are ranked by significance, with each block representing a cluster of co-occurring microbial genera associated to a group of AMPs. White dots indicate marginally significant pairwise associations. Multiple testing correction was applied using the Benjamini–Hochberg–Yekutieli (BHY) procedure.
